SE1020 – Object Oriented Programing 
Assignment:  Project 
Grade weightage : 10% 
Project Overview: 
Develop a web-based application to the given topic that allows users to manage and interact with 
a collection of items or services. The application should be built using Java web technologies in 
IntelliJ IDEA and will use file read/write operations for data storage instead of a database. 
Project Objectives: 
• Apply Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)  concepts such as encapsulation, 
inheritance, and polymorphism. 
• Implement minimum 3  of CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete)  operations for 
managing data using file handling techniques. 
• Create a user-friendly interface for interacting with the system. 
Development Environment: 
• Software: IntelliJ IDEA 
• Languages/Technologies: Java,  Spring Boot, HTML/CSS, JavaScript (for UI 
enhancements). You are allowed to use templates/ Tailwind CSS or Bootstrap to enhance 
the design and responsiveness of their web application.  
• Data Storage: File Read/Write ( Read and Write to a notepad ) OR a proper MySQL/ SQL 
DB connection 
• Version Control: GitHub for collaborative development 
Deliverables: 
1. Source Code Files: All .java, .jsp, and configuration files. 
2. Documentation: 
o Class diagrams  
o Final report (should include the Git repository commit history) 
3. Viva Presentation: 
o Each team member must explain their contribution and demonstrate its 
functionality. 
o Include sample data files (items.txt, users.txt, etc.) for demonstration. 
o Should present the Git repository commit history. 
o During the viva, the questioning will primarily focus on the backend Java code, 
including the implementation of object-oriented concepts and file handling 
 
 
 
 
Sample project: Online Library Management System 
Acceptable Individual Contribution:  
• User management (any 3 of below operations are acceptable)  
o Register a new user (Create) 
o Search user (Read) 
o Update available user details (Update) 
o Delete a user (Delete)  
• Backend services should be implemented using jsp Servlets and d ata management 
should be handled using file read/ writes. 
• Minimum 3 UIs. 
 
